We also looked at relevant collaborations in VR environments. The research demonstrated that egocentric views can increase the understanding of what other users are doing. It was also seen that awareness features, such as illustrating the locations and areas of interaction of other users is important to enhance the sense of presence within such applications. It would be interesting to look at ways to do this on volumetric displays. Users would clearly know the location of the collaborators, but techniques for indicating what their collaborators were looking at or doing should be investigated.

Lastly we discussed the important challenge of orienting text and widgets appropriately for multiple users. We have discussed applications for table top displays which automatically orient data for multiple users. This is an especially important area for volumetric displays, as improperly oriented text could be difficult or even impossible to read, if parallel to a user’s line of vision. Furthermore, users may not be stationary, taking advantage of the display’s 360º viewing angle, and so menus and widgets should be accessible from all areas.

## Summary of Background Literature

We have presented various theories, studies, and techniques from previous literature which relate to the exploration of user interfaces for volumetric displays. However, much of the research is taken from the virtual reality community, and there is very little previous research which has been focused on volumetric displays. An investigation into the interaction issues which are associated with volumetric displays will need to be conducted. We carry out such an investigation in the remainder of this thesis.

This investigation requires both a study of low-level human factor issues, as well as higher level explorations of interaction techniques and user interfaces. The most relevant low-level human factors issues are evaluating the viewing experience provided by the volumetric display in comparison to other 3D display modes, and investigating the user’s ability to interact with a true 3D display space. These issues are investigated in Chapters 3-5. At a higher level, new interaction techniques and user interfaces will need to be explored, which are designed specifically for volumetric displays, for both single and multiple users. We describe our work in this area in Chapters 6-8.