## 2.4 Evaluation of Three-Dimensional Viewing Modes

In the previous two sections we have discussed the various display technologies for viewing 3D data. With all the available types of 3D display technologies, it is important for designers to know which will be the most appropriate device for their task at hand. Most relevant to our work, we will want to determine under what condition volumetric displays will prove to be beneficial. Researchers have tried to address this issue by conducting formal evaluations to provide comparisons of different viewing modes. We now provide a summary of such research, and an overview of the important results obtained to date.

### 2.4.1 Subjective Impressions of Three-Dimensional Viewing Modes

In an early study, Ware et al. compared the relative effectiveness of head coupled and stereoscopic views by allowing users to make comparisons between pairs of presentation methods [Ware et al. 1993]. Two different 3D scenes were presented to users. One consisted of a sphere with its shadow cast on a ground plane. The other consisted of a bent piece of tube based on Shepard and Metzler’s mental rotation for 3D objects [Shepard and Metzler 1971]. Once a scene was presented, subjects could toggle between two presentation modes until they could decide which contributed more to the perception of the 3D space.

The experiment consisted of the following 5 conditions: perspective, stereo, head coupled monocular, head coupled binocular, head coupled with stereo. In the non-stereo conditions the same scene was presented to both eyes. In the binocular condition the viewpoint was between the eyes, while in the monocular condition, the viewpoint was correct for the right eye, and the subjects were asked to close their left eye. In the fixed