## Techniques

[Bowman and Hodges 1997, Hollerbach and Jacobsen 1993, Mine 1995a, Poupyrev et al. 1996]. This allows the object of interest to be rotated and translated as desired.

Techniques have also been proposed to allow for direct manipulation with objects which are at a distance. In the ISAAC system, users could first select an object with a ray cursor and then manipulate the object with a direct mapping from the hand [Mine 1995b]. A similar technique called HOMER (Hand-Centered Object Manipulation Extending Ray-Casting) was suggested by Bowman and Hodges, where the object is selected with a ray cursor and then a virtual hand jumps to the object position, and the object becomes attached to the hand [Bowman and Hodges 1997]. The World in Miniature interface allows users to quickly select and manipulate an object positioned anywhere in the environment by grabbing the miniature object which is in the palm of their hand [Stoakley et al. 1995]. They can orient the miniature environment by rotating the hand that holds it, allowing them to select objects that may be obscured from their current point of view. Once an object is selected, it can be positioned and oriented in the miniature world with a one-to-one mapping from the hand, or also at a greater scale for more fine grain control.

### 2.6.3.2 Voodoo Dolls

Voodoo dolls extend these direct manipulation techniques by allowing bimanual interactions [Pierce et al. 1999b]. With this technique, each hand can hold a voodoo doll, a miniature copy of an object in the virtual environment (Figure 2-13). The dolls are created by using occlusion selection with either hand, and held with a pinch. Dolls can be passed from one hand to the other, and dropped by releasing the pinch. The object held in the dominant hand can be positioned and oriented relative to the object being held in the non-dominant hand. This follows Guiard’s bimanual theory where the dominant hand works in the reference frame set by the non-dominant hand [Guiard 1987]. To move a lamp onto a table, for example, the user creates a voodoo doll of the lamp in the dominant hand and of the table in the non dominant hand. The user then places the miniature copy of the lamp on top of the table. In the actual virtual scene, the lamp will move on top of the table, which remains stationary. In a follow-up study, it was found that the Voodoo

