## 2.6.1.2 Eyeball-in-Hand Metaphor

With the eyeball-in-hand technique, the position of the input device is directly mapped to the position of the virtual camera, or eyeball, within the 3D scene. The viewpoint of this eyeball is then projected on the viewing display. They explored both an absolute mapping between the input device and eyeball position, and a relative mapping, in which the viewpoint only changed when a button was depressed. While the relative mapping allowed for ratcheting, it destroyed the user’s mental model of a fixed invisible scene, and so users found it confusing. The chameleon discussed in Section 2.2.6 is an example of a display device which provides eyeball in hand navigation [Fitzmaurice 1993].

## 2.6.1.3 Scene-in-Hand Metaphor

With the scene-in-hand metaphor, the three-dimensional world is moved in correspondence with the six degree-of-freedom input device. If the device is rotated clockwise, then the scene will also rotate clockwise. Large movements can be accomplished by ratcheting, using a button as a clutch. It was found that the scene-in-hand metaphor was useful for changing the viewpoint in a hierarchal scene. Stoakley et al. designed an extension of the scene-in-hand metaphor, which makes use of a “World-in-Miniature” representation of the scene [Stoakley et al. 1995]. With this technique, navigation can be accomplished by manipulating a hand-held miniature copy of the virtual environment.

## 2.6.1.4 Flying Vehicle Metaphor

The other technique proposed is the flying vehicle metaphor. With this technique the scene is perceived from the position and orientation of the vehicle. The input device is used to control the spatial and angular velocity of the vehicle, allowing it to be moved throughout the scene. This metaphor is commonly used in 3D games, in which the "player position" can be thought of as the vehicle. The user controls the position and orientation of the viewpoint to move throughout the environment. This technique has been enhanced in various ways, such as allowing for rapid and controlled movement [Mackinlay et al. 1990].