## 2.5.1 Six Degree-of-Freedom Devices

Ware and Jessome explore the use of a free-space six degree-of-freedom device for a three-dimensional positioning task [Ware and Jessome 1988]. They called the device a “bat”, as it is like a mouse which flies (Figure 2-8a). The tracking device provides six degrees of freedom by sensing its x, y, and z positions, as well as its roll, pitch, and yaw. There are a number of commercially available implementations of such six degree-of-freedom tracking devices (e.g. www.ascension-tech.com, www.polhemus.com) and they have been commonly used for interacting with virtual environments, as they can be used to directly manipulate the position and orientation of virtual objects [Bowman and Hodges 1997, Hollerbach and Jacobsen 1993, Mine 1995a, Poupyrev et al. 1996]. Frolich and Plate [2000] augmented a bat with 3 rods representing the principal axes, which could be pushed and pulled to specify constrained motion along the corresponding axis.

![Figure 2-8. (a) The “bat” is an isotonic device consisting of a handle with a six degree-of-freedom tracker. (b) The spaceball ™ is an example of a six degree-of-freedom isometric device. Images taken from Zhai [1995].](example-image-a.jpg)
![Figure 2-8. (a) The “bat” is an isotonic device consisting of a handle with a six degree-of-freedom tracker. (b) The spaceball ™ is an example of a six degree-of-freedom isometric device. Images taken from Zhai [1995].](example-image-b.jpg)

Zhai gives a detailed comparison of these isotonic devices, which can be moved freely in 3D space, to six degree-of-freedom isometric input devices [Zhai 1995]. Isometric devices are mounted on a stationary surface, and sometimes termed “desktop devices” [Zhai 1998], and are like six degree-of-freedom joysticks. These devices are isometric as they all have some sort of spring loaded or elastic self-centering mechanism. Examples are the Spaceball™, SpaceMaster™ and SpaceMouse™ (Figure 2-8b). Zhai found that isotonic devices are much more appropriate for position control, while isometric devices are superior for rate control.