## Single Display Groupware

_single_ shared display was later categorized as single display groupware [Stewart et al. 1999]. This work also falls within the definition of some other categories of research. It fits Shafer and Bowman’s definition of spatial collaboration - collaboration activities focused on physical areas [Shafer and Bowman 2005]. Following the taxonomy given by Ellis, Gibbs, and Rein, it would be classified as same time, same place collaboration [Ellis et al. 1991]. Baecker refers to applications supporting this form of collaboration as synchronous co-located groupware [Baecker 1994]. While collaborative user interfaces have not been explored on volumetric displays, there has been research relevant to the area, which we now review.

### Single Display Groupware

Single display groupware (SDG) is generally defined as systems that support a group of collocated users working with a single display. Stewart et al. are credited with coining the term single display groupware [Stewart et al. 1999], but the first SDG system may have been MMM [Bier and Freeman 1991]. This system was the first to explore a system where multiple users shared a user interface not over a network, but across a single display. The MMM system looked at specific issues such as registering input devices with users, managing screen real-estate for the users, directing feedback to appropriate users without disrupting others, and allowing multiple users to work separately, without distracting each other. 

Following this work, Stewart et al. present a model for SDG, and discussed three issues central to SDG applications: Shared user interfaces, shared feedback, and coupled navigation [Stewart et al. 1999]. Shared user interfaces mean that elements of the user interface must be accessible to each user, and user interface elements must be able to handle multiple simultaneous streams of input. Shared feedback refers to the fact that feedback provided to one user will generally be seen by all users, which can sometimes be problematic. Coupled navigation is an issue that arises when one user navigates to a different part of the viewed data or document. Generally, all users’ views are coupled and so other users will navigate as well. These central issues must be considered when designing a single display groupware application, including on the volumetric display.