A solution to this problem is to allow users to see the physical world, such as their hands, tools, and other people, while wearing the display. This can be accomplished by mounting video cameras onto the displays, and incorporating their images into the virtual world which the user sees. The cameras act as an extra set of eyes for the user, projecting a view of the physical world onto the computer generated view of the virtual world. This is similar to providing the user with a heads up display, using an optical see-though display. This approach is generally known as augmented reality, as the systems augments the physical world with additional virtual imagery.

## 2.2.5 Cave

Another interesting form of an immersive 3D display is known as a Cave. A Cave is room where the walls, floor, and ceiling, act as the display. To provide a seamless view of the virtual scene, each of the displays must be tiled together at the edges where they intersect. The projected surfaces of the Cave are typically in stereo, with the user wearing a pair of glasses. Furthermore, the head is tracked so that the appropriate perspective is always presented to the user. A benefit of Caves over head mounted displays is that users can still see and have a maintained context of their physical surroundings. A number of other systems similar to Caves have also been developed, which vary in size, and also the number of surfaces which are projected onto. One example is large scale projection displays, such as the ImmersaDesk.