3D models, 3DM provides interface elements such as a toolbox, which is a floating menu from which the main commands of the system can be accessed using a cursor. From the toolbox there are tools, which change the current mode of operation, commands, which perform single actions without changing the system’s mode, and toggles, which change some global aspect of the system. The system provides various tools for surface creating, such as a triangle tool and an extrusion tool. The system also provides the standard editing operations, such as scaling, moving, cutting, and pasting. The user could navigate through the system by either walking or flying. The user could also change their scale relative to the environment to allow for faster navigation through larger distances.

## 2.7.4 JDCAD

Liang and Green developed a highly interactive 3D modeling system called JDCAD. The system runs using a head tracked fish tank environment, and the user interacts with the system using a six degree-of-freedom bat. JDCAD provided a suite of general interaction techniques, and operations specific for 3D modeling. Users interface elements included a spherical pop-up menu called Daisy, and the spotlight selection cursor was used for object selection. Available modeling operations included 3D rubber banding object creation, reshaping, alignment, and clipping. It was found that when using the JDCAD system, it could take as little as 1/10 of the time required by a traditional system, to model a mechanical component of moderate complexity.

### 2.7.5 Interactive 3D Workbenches

Poston and Serra developed the Virtual Workbench, which displays 3D images on a mirror in front of the user. The Virtual Workbench allows for bimanual interaction. Each hand can hold different props, which control various tools based on the current mode. The system was developed with medical applications in mind, including tools such as viewing the cross section of a volume. The responsive workbench is another example of a two-handed interactive virtual reality system, in which the user wore a pair of pinch gloves. A stereoscopic image is displayed on a rear-projected tabletop display. A number of two-handed interactions were developed, such as two-handed zooming and rotation about an axis.