## In the VR realm, generally each user has their own view of the world

In the VR realm, generally each user has their own view of the world, and so there are not the same challenges for proving text orientations suitable for all users. The system can simply provide appropriate orientations for each user’s view. Chen et al. provide a taxonomy of text layouts in virtual environments. They note that text can either have a within-the-world display, in which it appears inside the 3D environment, and can even be projected on to the faces of various 3D objects, or it can have a heads-up display, in which the text appears on an invisible 2D image plane directly in front of the user’s viewpoint. They found the heads-up display to perform better and to be preferable in a searching task. Bell et al. look at techniques for view management, in which decision algorithms for the layout of graphical objects such as text take into account visibility constraints that allow applications to manage what users see. They provide an algorithm which continuously updates the position, size, and transparency of textual labels based on the users viewpoint, preventing objects from occluding each other. The technique they present is valuable for 3D environments which have a single viewer, but would need to be extended for when there are multiple viewers of the scene.

### 2.8.5 Summary

In this section we have provided an outline of the research which relates to the development of collaborative applications for volumetric displays. Such collaboration would be synchronous and co-located, and falls within the definitions of single display groupware, and spatial collaboration.

We presented a brief overview of the early single groupware research, and also looked at spatial collaborations occurring on table-top displays. Since users of such applications are focused on a shared physical area, albeit a 2D space, these interfaces will be of great relevance to the development of collaborative interfaces for volumetric displays. Some of the important interaction techniques for spatial collaboration discussed were the creation and manipulation of shared and personalized spaces, interaction with private data, supporting multiple active areas, and techniques for storing data and sharing data between users. Such techniques should be incorporated in collaborative applications for volumetric displays.