## 2.8.2.3 Storage Bins

Scott et al. developed a new interaction technique for tabletop displays called storage bins [Scott et al. 2005]. Storage bins are containers for data which allow users to share resources and transition between activities. Storage bins can be moved to bring a collection of items in and out of the users’ current focus, and they can be expanded or collapsed to allow people to dynamically customize their working area. Storage bins provide the same capabilities as containers, allowing users to add or remove items as a group or individually. The bins can also be resized to vary the capacity of the bin.

## 2.8.3 Spatial Collaboration in Virtual Environments

The relevant work on collaborative interaction discussed so far deals with interaction with 2D data – either in electronic meeting rooms or on digital table top displays. There has also been some relevant research on spatial collaboration in 3D virtual environments [Schafer and Bowman 2005]. Schafer and Bowman provide a virtual environment where users individually navigate through the 3D scene, while virtual avatars provide an indication of each user’s location and orientation [Schafer and Bowman 2004]. They analyzed the effect of the frame of reference on the overall collaboration experience, and the users’ awareness of each other’s location and activities. They looked at an egocentric frame of reference, where each user has their own first person view, an exocentric view, where each user has an equivalent and shared third person view of the environment, and a combination of both, in which one user had an egocentric, and the other had an